Gabriel Alando joins us from the United
Nations Headquarters Gabriel you've been
you've been tracking the language in
this resolution and the various drafts
um since pretty much the beginning of
the week so you are best place to tell
us exactly what this says and what this
does what do we need to remember from uh
un Security Council resolution 1029 what
does it
do well the big picture the big umbrella
if you will is it is now binding under
international law since it passed and it
is calling for a huge ramp up of
humanitarian Aid into Gaza uh and then a
ramp up of its distribution as well now
that's the big picture beyond that
sometimes what is not in a resolution is
as important as what's in it and that
could be the case here in the final uh
draft resolution that is now uh was
voted upon and is now part of intern is
binding under international law uh it
does not call for a suspension of
hostilities instead it just calls for a
conditions leading to a sustainable
cessation of hostilities and this was a
real point of contention particularly
for uh Russia and some other members of
the security Council who wanted much
much more than that uh and you say why
is that so important because in order to
get this Aid in uh safely and ramp up
this Aid uh you got to do that with with
with with safety right you can't do that
as as a as a place is being bombarded so
uh that's key also it also calls for the
Secretary General to appoint
aaran I have to jump in because we see
the ambassador of Palestine at the UN
who is speaking so let's listen in had
been killed by Israel the occupying
power in its Siege and aggression on the
Gaza
Strip the council is now meeting after
over 20,000 Palestinians have been
killed almost half of them
children and 60,000 people have been
wounded and 2 million Palestinians have
been Force forcefully
displaced it is meeting as homes
shelters schools hospitals have been
destroyed and as hunger and disease are
spreading like
wildfire no one should
forget that what we are talking about
are 2.3 million
Palestinians who have been fighting for
their life and facing death every single
day for 75
days they have been fighting for their
lives for their very existence for over
days Mr President the Arab and the OIC
groups with the support of an
overwhelming number of UN member states
have been
mobilizing for three objectives and we
said that from the
beginning end the Carnage
immediately immediate seiz fire
humanitarian assistance at scale and no
Force
displacement we meet today as part of
this continuous effort to advance these
three
goals Mr President allow me at the onset
to pay tribute to all the humanitarian
and health care
workers who are who at Peril to their
own lives are struggling every single
day to address and alleviate an
occupation made humanitarian catastrophe
of unprecedented
scale they are operating under
conditions where no place and no one is
safe under widespread and indiscriminate
bombing where hospitals and shelters and
ambulances are shelled and with minimal
to no access to humanitarian supplies
necessary to sustain and save
lives we pay tribute to the Palestine
red crescent in which many of you have
met them in your trip to the Rafa
Crossing to Palestinian medical and
civilian rescue teams to the Personnel
of the United Nations and its agencies
notably Ona to the members of
Palestinian and international
humanitarian organizations on the ground
and to the
icrc their work is heroic and deserves
our utmost recognition and
respect the draft resolution presented
by the United Arab Emirate is to allow
them to conduct their sacred mission to
assist civilians in need to save human
lives as Israel the occupying power
continues to ignore the the global
demands for an immediate humanitarian
ceasefire and to deprive the Palestinian
people of the humanitarian Aid they
desperately
need there are thousands of trucks of
humanitarian Aid on the Egyptian
side and Egypt's full willing willing uh
willingness and mobilization to this to
see this Aid delivered us saw those
thousands of truckloads from your trip
from Alish airport to the Rafa
Crossing there are over 2 million
Palestinians in desperate need of such
Aid on the Palestinian
side this inhumane and criminal Israeli
Siege this use of humanitarian Aid
necessary for the survival of the
population as method of War has to end
and it has to end
now Mr
President on 4th of November the deputy
head of the Israeli civil Administration
stated from inside Gaza and I quote
whoever return whoever returns here if
they return here
after will find scorched Earth no houses
no agriculture no nothing they have no
future end of
quotation this is just one statement
among far too many demonstrating in
shocking terms that what we are dealing
with is an attempt at the destruction of
our people and their displacement
forever from their
land this is Israel's goal it's true
objective no future for Palestinians in
Palestine that is why it is bombing
everyone and everything that is why it
targets homes hospitals schools bakeries
agricultural Fields water and sanitation
networks so that sustenance of life
becomes impossible and it has become
impossible that is why it targets the
landmarks of Gaza which stand witness of
its ancient history and of Our Roots in
the land our historic churches and
mosques our monuments and our
architecture Israel also
targets the
storytellers those who capture our
people's lives
suffering and death including the
journalist conveying to the world the
truth about the massacres about this
grave and unbearable Injustice being
endured by Palestinian people and their
families but Israel's Target is not only
the past and the present of our people
but indeed the future that is why it
kills our doctors engineers poets
academics artists this is why it is
destroying our cities and towns our
universities and cultural institutions
that is why it kills our children and
terrorizes and traumatizes them scaring
and disfiguring their
Futures we often quote the number of
children killed an unbearable tragedy
but we should not forget get the
25,000 children orphaned and the tens of
thousands wounded and
amputated a 12 year-old Palestinian girl
with the most beautiful of
names
dun which
means dun in Arabic it means the whole
world lost both her
parents
her her sister and her
brother all killed in israeli's Shilling
over her
house she also lost her leg and I
believe she was
interviewed by the CNN journalist that
United Arab Emirate managed to let her
enter the Gaza Strip and to make that
important report that she did andonia
said that
while she will never forget her loved
ones she has to continue
living that she would become a doctor to
help
children as doctors helped her
but Dunya did not
live to become a
doctor or to memorialize her
family she was killed a few days ago
later in the strike and the maternity
word of
anas
Hospital Israel wants to convince to
convince
us that we need to choose between life
and our
country by making life in our country
impossible our people want to
live in their
country they want their children to grow
safely in their country there is no
simpler dream there is no aspiration
more sacred than
that Mr
President Israel's treatment of
Palestinian civilians and its uphor and
its abhorent crimes against them were
further starkly revealed after Israel
killed three people raising a white flag
and representing no
danger it later discovered that they
were three Israelis who had been held
captive in Gaza it could have saved them
had it observed the laws of war but it
thought they were Palestinians and shut
them and yet another display of total
abject disregard for Palestinian lives
this confirms the many reports of
summary executions of Palestinians being
murdered in Cold Blood by Israeli
soldiers in Gaza Israel has also
continued its ill treatment and mass
arrest and hum humiliation of
Palestinian
in Despicable scenes filmed by its own
soldiers boosting about
their dear
depravity those are the soldiers of a
ragu Army unhinged and un and empowered
by the impunity it enjoys certain that
it will not be held accountable an army
that commits atrocities every single day
in the words of Israel's closest allies
its indiscriminate bombing and its
killing rage needs to
stop that means its crimes need to stop
Gaza is like a patient whose wounds you
are trying to treat while the killer
keeps shooting at them you need to stop
the killer or you will never be able to
save the patient Mr President death is
everywhere in Gaza in its different
manifestations destruction deprivation
disease people are starving they have no
water no food no medicine or barely
any the draft resolution that the
council voted on today is intented to
help address this inhumane situation to
alleviate the untold suffering and pain
being born by millions of
civilians we welcome the decision to
establish a un mechanisms to accelerate
the provision of humanitarian relief
Consignments to Gaza and call for its
rapid
implementation the council also called
for Urgent steps to immediately allow
safe unhindered and expanded
humanitarian access the Secretary
General and all un agencies as well as
humanitarian organizations have all said
that this requires an immediate
humanitarian
ceasefire now backed by 153 states
around the
world it took this Council 75 days to
finally utter the word secession of
hostilities to utter the word secession
of
hostilities 40 days after the general
assembly first referred to that
objective and tens of thousands of
Palestinians killed
later we support the Russian
Amendment and the United Arab Emirate as
Arab representative reflected that
support in its
vote of course that that paragraph which
was endorsed in the blue form the
original one by the 83
co-sponsors the resolution is also clear
about the unwavering commitment to the
two-state solution consistent with
international law and UN
resolution resolutions and in this
context on the status of the Gaza Strip
as an integral part of the territory
occupied in
1967 and as part of the Palestinian
State and on the unity of the Gaza Strip
and the West Bank and the role of the
Palestinian Authority and the complete
rejection of forc displacement in
violation of international
law Mr President let us act now to save
lives to provide life saving assistance
and life sustaining hope this resolution
is a step in the right direction it must
be implemented and must be accompanied
by Massive pressure for an immediate
ceasefire I repeat immediate
ceasefire there is no way to stop the
war crimes crimes against humanity and
genocide underway but an immediate
ceasefire ceasefire again there is no
way to start addressing the occupation
made humanitarian
catastrophe but an immediate ceasefire
ceasefire again there is no way to
release those held
captive but an immediate
ceasefire this resolution calls for
protection of civilians deplores attacks
against civilians rejects Force
displacement calls for immediate and
safe humanitarian access and for
humanitarian Aid reaching the
Palestinian population all that requires
an immediate
ceasefire immediate ceas
fire as requested and as called for by
the Secretary General in his famous
letter to the security
Council Humanity must Prevail
International laws law must Prevail
millions of lives hang in the balance
and I think thank you very much Mr
President I thank the permanent Observer
of the Observer state of Palestine for
his statement I now give the floor to
the representative of
Israel thank you Mr
President Just A Week Ago jel Adel
carried out a terror attack in Iran in
which 11 Iranian police officers were
killed within one day the security
Council released a statement condemning
the act of Terror
it took the security Council one day to
express their condolences and sympathy
with the families of the victims it's
true terrorism must be condemned even if
the attacks are perpetrated against
police officers of a rogue regime and
the world's leading sponsor of global
Terror Mr President 77 days ago Kamas
intentionally murdered raped and
mutilated 1,300 Israelis and took 250
hostages and this Council still has yet
to issue a sing sing Le statement
condemning Kamas and their
atrocities in addition to the council's
inability to condemn hamas's attack the
130 hostages women children and the
elderly are still being held in Gaza and
must not be allowed to become a
footnote humanitarian Aid is pouring
into Gaza every single day yet the
hostages being held by Hamas are not
even allowed visits by the Red Cross
this is the most heinous War crime
imaginable the hostages must be at the
top of this council's
agenda council members there is no doubt
that humanitarian Aid is crucially
important Israel is already facilitating
hundreds of truckloads of Aid into Gaza
every day Israel is also willing and
able to exponentially increase the entry
of Aid trucks into Gaza Israel has
already opened the km Shalom Crossing in
order to ensure the entry of more trucks
and has also facilitated the entry of
dozens of trucks that arrived from
Jordan the only roadblock for Aid entry
is the un's ability to accept
them enhancing un monitoring or
coordination of Aid is not a cure all
and any enhancement of un Aid monitoring
cannot be done at the expense of
Israel's security inspections Israel not
only has a right but an obligation to
guarantee its security this is why our
mission to eliminate hamas's
capabilities has not changed and this is
why security inspections of Aid will not
change Israel will not permit the
regrouping and rearming of Hamas as the
atrocities of October 7th can never be
allowed to repeat
themselves Israel recently exposed
another huge Hamas Terror tunnel that
stretches 4 km was constructed 50 m
underground this Terror tunnel is wide
enough for vehicles to drive through can
house hundreds of terrorists the amount
of cement and equipment needed to build
this tunnel alone is immense this is
just one part of kamasa subterranean
city of Terror the missile and Rocket
manufacturing facilities and terrorist
training complexes across Gaza it cannot
be claimed that Israel did not give any
warning for years we have sent letters
outlining hamas's Terror threat and
growing capabilities we have held
countless meetings with officials we
have done everything possible to make it
clear that action must be taken but our
words fell on deaf
ears Mr President if this Council seeks
to end hostilities it should start by
supporting Israel's mission of returning
the hostages and eliminating the Kamas
threat at the very least it must prevent
hamas's
empowerment just as this council is
committed to increasing Aid it should
also be committed to blocking the
smuggling of arms and transfer weapons
to the Hamas terrorists and just as this
council is committed to ensuring Aid
reaches GS and civilians it should also
be committed to ensuring the said Aid is
not diverted to hamad's terrorists who
do not care about the civilian
population the focus of any resolution
should also hold Hamas accountable while
taking every step to prevent them from
entrenching themselves and regaining
power Mr President Hamas is a genocidal
Terror organization Hamas is a direct
threat to the security of Israel to
gazans and Regional stability in order
to promote security this Council should
first recognize hamas's Terror regime
and then focus on the elimination of its
threats it should be focused on freeing
the hostages it should be focused on
preventing Hamas from exploiting Aid it
should be focused on ensuring Kamas can
no longer expand their Terror
infrastructure any resolution adopted by
this Council should be focused primarily
on these points and this is the
council's responsibility and this is key
to security I thank you Mr
President